TF migration docs (#2029)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/test-fairy/api-reference/rest-api.md

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This is the reference document for the TestFairy REST API. This API allows the developer to access and interact with TestFairy data remotely.

## Getting Started

> Getting started with the REST API is easy, and can be done via command line with any programming language. Let's begin with a simple example. We will start by listing all our projects.

Author: ```suggestion
Getting started with the REST API can be done via the command line with any programming language. Let's begin with a simple example. We start by listing all our projects.
```

A project is either an iOS app or an Android app (two apps with the same package name but on different platforms are considered two projects.)

```bash
curl -u "john@example.com:00001234cafecafe" "https://api.testfairy.com/api/1/projects/"
```

In the example above, you can see that our user is `john@example.com` and the API key is `0001234cafecafe`. This user authentication token is required for all requests to the REST server.

> **Your API key is private**, please do not share it or post it on public code repositories or forums. To find your API key, please refer to [your preferences page](https://app.testfairy.com/settings).

Author: ```suggestion
**Your API key is private**, do not share it or post it on public code repositories or forums. To find your API key, please refer to [your preferences page](https://app.testfairy.com/settings).
```

## Projects

### Get All Projects

<details><summary><span className="api get">GET</span><code>/api/1/projects/</code></summary>
<p></p>

Returns a list of all projects (iOS and Android apps) in this account.

#### Responses

<table id="table-api">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>200</code></td>
			<td colSpan='2'>Success.</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

```json title="Sample Response"
{
    "status": "ok",
    "projects": [
        {
            "id": "19-groupshot",
            "self": "/projects/19-groupshot",
            "name":"GroupShot",
            "packageName":"com.groupshot",
            "platform":"Android",
            "icon":"[URL TO APP ICON]"
        }
    ]
}
```

</details>

## Builds

### Get All Builds in a Project

<details><summary><span className="api get">GET</span><code>/api/1/projects/&#123;project-id&#125;/builds/</code></summary>
<p></p>

> Get all builds in a specific project. Each build is a distinct version that was either uploaded, or created by the TestFairy SDK.

Author: ```suggestion
Get all builds in a specific project. Each build is a distinct version that is either uploaded or created by the TestFairy SDK.
```

#### Responses

<table id="table-api">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>200</code></td>
			<td colSpan='2'>Success.</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

```json title="Sample Response"
{
    "status": "ok",
    "build": {
        "id":8830728,
        "self":"/projects/6806100-myapplication/builds/8830728",
        "projectId":"6806100",
        "appName":"My Application",
        "appVersion":"DemoApp",
        "appVersionCode":"20",
        "appDisplayName":"My Application - DemoApp (20)",
        "iconUrl":"[APP ICON URL]",
        "appUrl":"[URL TO APK OR IPA FILE]",
        "sessions":6,
        "crashes":0,
        "testers":0,
        "feedbacks":0,
        "downloads":1,
        "uploadedAt":"2019-04-04 16:03:15",
        "uploadedVia":"[UPLOAD DETAILS]",
        "hasTestFairySdk":true,
        "insightsEnabled":true,
        "videoEnabled":true
    }
}
```

</details>

---

### Delete a Specific Build

<details><summary><span className="api delete">DELETE</span><code>/api/1/projects/&#123;project-id&#125;/builds/&#123;build-id&#125;</code></summary>
<p></p>

> Delete a specific build. When all builds of a project have been deleted, the project itself is removed from /api/1/projects API. When deleting a build, all of its artifcats (IPA/APK files), recorded sessions and crashes are also deleted.

Author: ```suggestion
Delete a specific build. When all builds of a project are deleted, the project itself is removed from /api/1/projects API. When deleting a build, all of its artifacts (IPA/APK files), recorded sessions, and crashes are also deleted.
```

<p></p>

Get metadata for all sessions recorded for a specific build.

#### Responses

<table id="table-api">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>200</code></td>
			<td colSpan='2'>Success.</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

```json title="Sample Response"
{
    "status": "ok",
    "sessions": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "self": "/projects/2197059-demoapp/builds/4867553/sessions/1",
            "startTime": "2017-01-22 16:42:40",
            "duration": "15:01",
            "testerEmail": "john@testfairy.com",
            "device": "Samsung - Samsung Galaxy S8",
            "ipAddress": "23.100.122.175",
            "crashed": false,
            "countryName": "United States",
            "countryCode": "us"
        }
    ]
}
```

</details>

---

### Get Session Data, Events and Logs

<details><summary><span className="api get">GET</span><code>/api/1/projects/&#123;project-id&#125;/builds/&#123;build-id&#125;/sessions/&#123;session-id&#125;</code></summary>
<p></p>

Get metadata (and optionally data) for a specific session.

#### Parameters

<table id="table-api">
  <tbody>
   <tr>
    <td><code>fields</code></td>

>     <td><p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING |</small></p><p>Possible values: <code>meta</code>, <code>logs</code>, <code>events</code>. Default value is <code>meta</code>. Use <code>events</code> to load all events, screenshots, touches and other metrices. Use <code>logs</code> to fetch only logs. When loading logs, response will be application/text.</p></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING |</small></p><p>Possible values: <code>meta</code>, <code>logs</code>, <code>events</code>. The default value is <code>meta</code>. Use <code>events</code> to load all events, screenshots, touches, and other metrics. Use <code>logs</code> to fetch only logs. When loading logs, the response is application/text.</p></td>
```

#### Parameters

<table id="table-api">
  	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>email</code></td>
			<td><p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING |</small></p><p>One or more emails, separated by commas, to add to your account.</p></td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>group</code></td>
			<td><p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING |</small></p><p>Assign tester or testers to this tester-group. Will create one if no such group exists. Default value: none.</p></td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>notify</code></td>
			<td><p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING |</small></p><p>Pass <code>notify=on</code> to send out a welcome email when inviting this tester. The email sent is the "Tester Welcome Email" template and can be configured. Default value is <code>off</code>.</p></td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

#### Responses

<table id="table-api">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>200</code></td>
			<td colSpan='2'>Success.</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

```json title="Sample Response"
{
    "status": "ok"
}
```

</details>

---

### Block a Tester

<details><summary><span className="api post">POST</span><code>/api/1/testers/&#123;tester-id&#125;/block/</code></summary>
<p></p>

> Blocks a single tester. They cannot download the apps they were invited to. However, the data stays. You can later unblock this tester, or delete them completely.

Author: ```suggestion
Blocks a single tester. They cannot download the apps they are invited to. However, the data stays. You can later unblock this tester or delete them completely.
```

#### Responses

<table id="table-api">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>200</code></td>
			<td colSpan='2'>Success.</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

```json title="Sample Response"
{
    "status": "ok"
}
```

</details>

---

> ### Unblock a tester

Author: ```suggestion
### Unblock a Tester
```

<details><summary><span className="api delete">DELETE</span><code>/api/1/testers/&#123;tester-id&#125;/block/</code></summary>
<p></p>

Unblock a single tester. Their invitations are restored. If the user is already unblocked, then nothing happens.

#### Responses

<table id="table-api">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><code>200</code></td>
			<td colSpan='2'>Success.</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

```json title="Sample Response"
{
    "status": "ok"
}
```

</details>

---

### Delete a Tester

<details><summary><span className="api delete">DELETE</span><code>/api/1/testers/&#123;tester-id&#125;</code></summary>
<p></p>

> Delete a single tester, remove them from any tester-groups they might be in, and invalidate all invitations that were sent.

Author: ```suggestion
Delete a single tester, remove them from any tester-groups they might be in, and invalidate all invitations that are sent.
```
